# Data-Prediction-Using-Machine-Learning

### Objective:-
Predicting the costs of used cars, given the data collected from various sources and distributed across various locations in India.

### What was done in this project?
1. Outliers were removed
2. Exploratory Data Analysis was performed
3. Data was split into train and test data.
4. 'Train data' was trained for various machine learning models.
5. Each machine learning models was tested using 'Test data' by various metrics like SE, MAE, RMSE, R2, Adjusted R2, etc
6. Based on result produced by the metrics, the best machine learning model is obtained.
7. That model was used for data prediction.

### Machine Learning Models Used:-
1. LINEAR REGRESSION
2. LINEAR REGRESSION (REMOVING OUTLIERS)
3. LINEAR REGRESSION (RIDGE REGRESSION)
4. LINEAR REGRESSION (LASSO)
5. RANDOM FOREST REGRESSION
6. K-NEAREST NEIGHBOURS
7. SUPPORT VECTOR MACHINE

**_Important_:** Support Vector Machine *(Model-7 [ Cell 172-177 ])* takes lot of time to train data, as dataset is huge and there are so many parameters to compare.

### Dataset:-
- **Data_Train.xlsx**: This was used to train all the machine learning models.
- **Data_Test.xlsx**: This was used for verifying the prediction, generated by most efficient machine learning model.

### Features in the data:
**1. Name**: The brand and model of the car.  
**2. Location**: The location in which the car is being sold or is available for purchase.  
**3. Year**: The year or edition of the model.  
**4. Kilometers_Driven**: The total kilometers driven in the car by the previous owner(s) in KM.  
**5. Fuel_Type**: The type of fuel used by the car.  
**6. Transmission**: The type of transmission used by the car.  
**7. Owner_Type**: Whether the ownership is Firsthand, Second hand or other.  
**8. Mileage**: The standard mileage offered by the car company in kmpl or km/kg.  
**9. Engine**: The displacement volume of the engine in cc.  
**10. Power**: The maximum power of the engine in bhp.  
**11. Seats**: The number of seats in the car.  
**12. New_Price**: The price of a new car of the same model.  
**13. Price**: The price of the used car in INR Lakhs.
